docs/intro/getting-started.rst, before:

Getting Started
===============

In this guide we will walk you through setting up your VOC environment for
development and testing. We will assume that you have a working Python 3, JDK,
Apache ANT installation and use virtualenv.

Get a copy of VOC
-----------------

The first step is to create a project directory, and clone VOC:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ mkdir tutorial
    $ cd tutorial
    $ git clone https://github.com/pybee/voc.git

Then create a virtual environment and install VOC into it:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ virtualenv -p $(which python3) env
    $ . env/bin/activate
    $ cd voc
    $ pip install -e .

Building the support JAR file
-----------------------------

Next, you need to build the Python support file:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ ant java

This should create a ``dist/python-java.jar`` file. This JAR file is a support library
that implements Python-like behavior and provides the Python standard library for
the Java environment. This JAR file must be included on the classpath for any
VOC-generated project.

Next Steps
----------

You now have a working VOC environment, so you can :doc:`start the first
tutorial </tutorials/tutorial-0>`.

Commit message:

Getting started: how to check dependencies (#151)

docs/intro/getting-started.rst, after:

Getting Started
===============

In this guide we will walk you through setting up your VOC environment for
development and testing. We will assume that you have a working Python 3, JDK,
Apache ANT installation and use virtualenv.

Checking Dependencies
---------------------

To check if you have Python installed, run ``python --version`` at the command line

.. code-block:: bash

	$ python --version
	Python 3.5.1

To check if you have the JDK installed, run ``javac -version``

.. code-block:: bash

	$ javac -version
	javac 1.7.0_101

To check if Apache ANT is installed, run ``ant -version``

.. code-block:: bash

	$ ant -version
	Apache Ant(TM) version 1.9.7 compiled on April 24 2016


Get a copy of VOC
-----------------

The first step is to create a project directory, and clone VOC:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ mkdir tutorial
    $ cd tutorial
    $ git clone https://github.com/pybee/voc.git

Then create a virtual environment and install VOC into it:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ virtualenv -p $(which python3) env
    $ . env/bin/activate
    $ cd voc
    $ pip install -e .

Building the support JAR file
-----------------------------

Next, you need to build the Python support file:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ ant java

This should create a ``dist/python-java.jar`` file. This JAR file is a support library
that implements Python-like behavior and provides the Python standard library for
the Java environment. This JAR file must be included on the classpath for any
VOC-generated project.

Next Steps
----------

You now have a working VOC environment, so you can :doc:`start the first
tutorial </tutorials/tutorial-0>`.
